So I'll just...
Okay, it's recording.
So I'll just say...
What's the date today?
Today is the 27th of July 2020
and I'm interviewing Mr. Michael...
Sammaltanis.
Sammaltanis, okay.
At the Athenian Tree restaurant.
So, yeah, don't worry, nothing formal.
So, yeah, talking about the dogs.
When they were stealing ewes?
Yeah, well I was born in 68.
Okay.
Here.
Born in St. David's Hospital to Greek parents.
Fathers from Athens and my mother's from Corfu.
Okay.
I think we lived with my grandparents in Gloucester Street,
which is in Riverside,
until I was about...
It was a long...
We got here until I was about three years old or four.
Then we moved to Rumney in Canada.
But I was constantly...
My grandparents, you know, especially being Greek.
Yes.
That was my mother's parents who lived in Canada.
Yeah.
So I would imagine that you wouldn't remember a lot from Riverside.
No.
But growing up, do you know if there were many people living down there,
near the dogs like Peter?
We had cousins and that who lived all in Grangetown, that area.
Okay.
A couple down the docks.
Yeah, you know, a lot of Greek.
When we were small, we'd go to, obviously, cousins and all the other Greek community,
because my parents were Greek.
So we had to tag along to the old Greek.
Yeah.
We're basically just collecting information from people like you,
anyone we can find now,
to see if they remember of any names of people who used to work at the docks
or had to do any job relating to ships.
Well, my godfather was a captain of oil tankers.
He lived here with us.
Would you mind saying the name?
Yorgos Papadopoulos.
He's from Athens, originally, Palatria.
And he was really good friends with my father,
so he was my godfather,
and I got christened in the Greek church in Grangetown.
Oh, here? Okay.
Yeah.
Unfortunately, he didn't pay the priest.
He ran off before he had to pay the priest.
So everyone else had to pay.
I'll throw that in.
That's okay.
He'd be gone for six months.
He'd go everywhere, in Venice, Wales.
He had big oil tankers and cargo ships.
He was captain of them.
He was captain of a cruise, as well.
No.
So he'd be gone for six months,
and then he'd come back and we'd go to the docks to pick him up.
We'd get on the boat.
He'd show us all this, which was huge anyway, but he was small.
It was huge.
And then he'd stay with us for six months,
and then he'd have six months on.
Obviously, they'd paid him too much money,
and then he'd have six months off, and then he'd go again.
And he'd always go from Cardiff.
Once or twice, they'd fold him and say,
there's a ship in Southampton for him to take.
Mostly.
As far as I can remember, until I was 16,
from the time of old five, he was back in four, you know.
He's the only person I really know, Greek-wise anyway,
who had anything to do with carnivores.
That's interesting to know of some people,
because we're trying to see,
not just for people who worked at the docks,
but in general for the community,
we're trying to find out where people came from, originally.
So we've talked to people who have come from Corfu, Saint-Étienne.
Here, if you look, I've got original receipts,
which I've framed, which was found in a skip.
And they were all Greek companies,
and they were all set in...
And they all didn't date. 1941, Vredos, they did.
We've got 42...
And there was even a guy who was buying it.
All shipping versions were Greek. Most of them were Greek.
So we've got...
Oh, that's interesting.
Yeah, so we've got plenty.
I think I've seen something like that.
Yeah, I gave it to him.
And all this was found in a skip.
Yeah, would you mind if at some point,
if we got to bring it, probably have a real free...
No, no, take it, you're welcome to.
So, especially even more than the one in the Hellenic.
So you see the name there?
Yes, yes.
Emdriolis, is it?
Yeah, but they were...
Yeah, since the month of the Hellenic Emdriolos.
So we're trying to, you know, very...
Yeah, they were all...
The Greeks had a lot to do with the docks.
At one stage, during the war, and just up until the 60s,
the shipping merchants who were selling supplies to the ships were Greek,
or Greek Syrians.
That was just someone walking past a skip.
I've seen them pass the guidance, and it all took it with Florida Way,
and inside was hundreds of original invoices.
I've still got a lot left.
And while I'm going to do that, I'm going to get a bit of time,
and we'll give them to the British Maritime Museum.
Because it's something that's been going on free-war and after-war,
and you can see the difference in what I've looked through them.
You can see the difference in what people were buying the ships from,
what we were coming in then, it was quiet.
Yeah, you can see the different phases.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's very interesting.
I think that's why he's back.
He's in Greece now, but when he comes back in September,
he might want to take a look at these.
Which brings me to the next question, because I was going to ask,
do you have any photos of that time when you were little,
or maybe from your parents' time?
I must have, at my mother's house.
Yeah.
To get her to take some embarrassing photographs.
No, you don't have to.
No, I will, I'll take some out.
We got some.
We got some in the 70s when we were at the house, we were in Runny.
We've got loads of them.
We're just wondering, we want to see if we can find anything
to show what life was at that time, or around that time.
Any names that come to mind of other professions
that the Greeks were doing at that time?
Yeah, Mike Atopaldi, who was one of the best panel beater sprayers here.
He was the best, he had to be the best.
He taught everyone here how to be a professional paint sprayer
and paint coach builder, they called it then.
Jimmy Exeteris, who's dead now sadly.
Again, that was another place, he had an S&E Motors,
which was in Coltsdale Avenue, industrial estate, with his houses in now.
He got taught from Mike Atopaldi, he was a friend of my father's,
and I remember going in as a kid, my father hardly spoke English anyway,
so he was just mixed with the Greeks, it was just easier.
It was just easier, I don't know why, but Jimmy, Jimmy Exeteris,
his brother, of course, they had a little Greek cafe in Salisbury Road.
And it was plenty of Greeks.
Yeah, we're looking at any kind, some people have told us about the shop owners,
Propertis, Spiro the boy now, his son, he's my age,
he runs the Fintans chip shops, well that started by,
it was all top, I think they were called Top Gun, the chip shops first,
actually the one in Wychurch, which was the original chip shop,
still got that name, the rest are Fintans now, and he's grown it,
and they have their convenience stores in, I think it was Heath Road.
So chip shops were all Greek or Italian when I was a kid?
I didn't know that.
All the shops were, if you want fish and chips, it was either Greek or Italian,
there was no, I mean City Road, Woodville Road, Cruz Road, it was all Greek.
It was all Greek, like it's turning back now all Greek.
Yes, it does, yeah.
The Athenian nightclub, it was a nightclub,
we were at Leipzig in the 80s, late 70s and 80s, and you know Ollie, Ollie Bus,
he was a partner there, so you need to ask him about that.
Okay, so I hadn't realised that he's been here for so long.
Ollie was best friends with my uncle, my mother's brother who sadly passed away
about eight years ago, they were like that, like a married couple,
but they were a married couple, they were very good friends,
they had businesses together, so Ollie couldn't feel you in the morning.
Ah, that's great.
And he'll give you some really better mornings, and I know he's older than me.
No, it's okay, we're just trying to start, looking for something to start with.
That's very good, because I was going to ask if you have anyone else that you think could,
I don't know if your parents are...
My parents, my mother probably do it, you'd have to go and see her,
because she's old now, she's 80, and she's broke her hip,
so if you have, you could go up and see her, I'll speak to her.
If you wouldn't mind asking, I mean at the moment, if she's worried about me,
we can leave it until later.
She's been in all through it, we didn't let him out, we locked him in, me and my brothers.
I've got two brothers, Christopher and Spero, older than me,
I'm the youngest out of the three.
Okay.
One's an engineer, and the other one had a barring call from until recently.
Okay, right. Yeah, basically that's all, just asking for general information.
I'll let my mother know, she'll be happy for you to go up there.
Okay, that's great.
I'm afraid you were food, but she'll be happy.
Oh, we wouldn't mind.
She could really tell you more.
My father had a business when we were young.
He had a business, first of all, with my uncle, who sadly passed away at the time,
selling fish to all chip shops, mainly all Greek and Italian.
So he was a provider.
Yeah, and then when that, because we used to go up with him,
like 50 miles an hour to Grimsby, which is like eight hours away,
when you drive 50 miles an hour in an old shaky truck.
And then when my uncle died, he started doing the pita bread,
but obviously wasn't the pita square,
but the pita bread you buy in test schools,
the kebab houses, you know what Simo does?
My father did that, mobile.
He'd done that for years.
Oh, so you didn't have a shop where people would go?
No, no, he extended the house, and the house was full of freezers,
you know, for all the stock, AES, anything Greek, Latvia.
So you basically worked for him.
I worked for him, yeah.
And then I had to go, you know, you can work for your parents,
it's very hard.
Yeah.
And I never went to, you know, my brothers did.
I just wanted to escape.
I wanted to go to Greece as soon as I was old enough,
because we spent every, you know, we spent two months a year,
from as far as I remember, we always went to Athens.
So then when I was 17, I left, and I didn't come back until I was 25.
Okay.
So I went DJing all around Europe, a lot of Greek islands.
Then my father then decided it was a good idea to open a nightclub
in Sanderini in 1988, I think it was.
I was about 19, 20 then.
After the year, I just said, again, you can work for your father,
especially not in a nightclub.
So I left and went to Corfu, and worked there for two seasons.
And then I went to Athens and worked in a club called the Hamam,
which was owned by a good friend of my father's, whose father was Turkish,
but was born here, and his mother was Greek, Paraskevas.
And now he's got a beautiful, one of the best seafood restaurants
in Sanderini, because his wife was from there.
So yeah, so then I did that, and then I went to Italy in the winter, in Milan.
DJ there, then I go back to work, I worked in Crete.
How come you came back?
Well, I came back then, you know, it was time.
I suppose the family's here.
24, 25.
It's old for the DJ then, you know, you've got a little,
it's like a footballer, you've got a 10-year span.
I made some good money out of it, I came back, I left the garage,
which I've still got.
And then, fortunately, I got involved with my friends,
and opened a restaurant.
We opened it in late November, and it went really well,
and then the story goes, everyone knows what the story is.
So yeah.
It was a hard year anyway, but you tried it.
Yeah, we tried it, and we're still going.
Just about.
Okay, thank you very much for that.
You're welcome.
Thank you.